docs/content/api/cookies.mdx, before:

---
title: Cookies
---

We extend the request and response objects with cookie handlers using
[`cookies`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookies).

## req.getCookie

Extract a cookie with the given name from the Cookie header in the request.

```js
export const getServerSideProps = handle({
  async get({ req }) {
    const session = req.getCookie('session');
  },
});
```

See
[pillarjs/cookies#cookies-get](https://github.com/pillarjs/cookies/tree/d2111627e8ff2e29f90e75d1f1cc4164c5a07a3f#cookiesget-name--options--)
for more options.

## res.setCookie

This sets the given cookie in the response. If the value is omitted, an response
header with an expired data is used to delete the cookie.

```js
export const getServerSideProps = handle({
  async get({ res }) {
    res.setCookie('session', Date.now(), { expires: 300 });
  },
});
```

See
[pillarjs/cookies#cookies-set](https://github.com/pillarjs/cookies/tree/d2111627e8ff2e29f90e75d1f1cc4164c5a07a3f#cookiesset-name--value---options--)
for more options.

Commit message:

feat: add cookies instance to the context (#37)

docs/content/api/cookies.mdx, after:

---
title: Cookies
---

We've added the [`cookies`](https://npmjs.com/cookies) instance to the
`GetServerSidePropsContext`, and also extended the request and response objects
with cookie handlers. Which one to choose depends on your personal style
preference. They offer the same functionality.

## context.cookies

The simplest way to use cookies, is probably via the `context.cookies`
namespace.

```js
export const getServerSideProps = handle({
  async get({ cookies }) {
    const session = cookies.get('session');
    cookies.set('session', Date.now(), { expires: 300 });
  },
});
```

See
[pillarjs/cookies](https://github.com/pillarjs/cookies/tree/d2111627e8ff2e29f90e75d1f1cc4164c5a07a3f#api)
for more options.

Alternatively, you might want to use the `getCookie` and `setCookie` helpers on
the request and response properties.

## req.getCookie

Extract a cookie with the given name from the Cookie header in the request.

```js
export const getServerSideProps = handle({
  async get({ req }) {
    const session = req.getCookie('session');
  },
});
```

See
[pillarjs/cookies#cookies-get](https://github.com/pillarjs/cookies/tree/d2111627e8ff2e29f90e75d1f1cc4164c5a07a3f#cookiesget-name--options--)
for more options.

## res.setCookie

This sets the given cookie in the response. If the value is omitted, an response
header with an expired data is used to delete the cookie.

```js
export const getServerSideProps = handle({
  async get({ res }) {
    res.setCookie('session', Date.now(), { expires: 300 });
  },
});
```

See
[pillarjs/cookies#cookies-set](https://github.com/pillarjs/cookies/tree/d2111627e8ff2e29f90e75d1f1cc4164c5a07a3f#cookiesset-name--value---options--)
for more options.
