docs/content/getting-started/4-data-updates.mdx, before:

---
title: Data Updates
---

Now here's the thing that I'm most excited about. `POST` requests! It's likely
that you've already been doing those with Next before, but usually it involves
creating api-routes, posting with `fetch`, and managing client state with `swr`
or `react-query`. No more!

Let's get right to it.

## handle » post

```js
import { handle, json } from 'next-runtime';

export const getServerSideProps = handle({
  async post({ req: { body } }) {
    await db.comments.insert({
      message: body.message,
    });

    return json({
      message: 'thanks for your comment!',
    });
  },
});
```

I mean, how cool is that? By adding the `post` handler, we'll be able to submit
forms (post data) to the same route as the one that's responsible for rendering
the page. No context switching between the page component, `getServerSideProps`,
and `api-routes`. And here as well it comes with a free api route. Post FormData
to it, or JSON. They both just work.

Possibly unnecessary, but here's a form that could be submitting data to this
`getServerSideProps`.

```jsx
export default function MyPage({ name, message }) {
  if (message) {
    return <p>{message}</p>;
  }

  return (
    <form method="post">
      <input name="name" defaultValue={name} />
      <input name="message" />
      <button type="submit">submit</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

That's right. Just a standard HTML form.

## Upgrading to `<Form>`

These standard `POST` requests are sweet! You'll have forms implemented in
no-time. Don't make react control the state. Use `defaultValue` and no
`onSubmit` handler. Let your server do its validation, and move on.

But sometimes, we want more. Faster responses, or prevent the page from
reloading. In such cases, you'll use `Form`.

```jsx
import { Form, usePendingFormSubmit } from 'next-runtime/form';

export default function MyPage({ name, message }) {
  const pending = usePendingFormSubmit();

  if (message) {
    return <p>{message}</p>;
  }

  return (
    <Form method="post">
      <input name="name" defaultValue={name} />
      <input name="message" />
      <button type="submit" disabled={pending}>
        {pending ? 'submitting' : 'submit'}
      </button>
    </Form>
  );
}
```

Note that we now import `Form` from `next-runtime/form`, and use a hook to see
if the form is currently being submitted. By using `Form` instead of `form`, the
form is submitted using javascript (`fetch`), and the page won't refresh upon
submission.

Commit message:

docs: document patch, put, and delete methods

docs/content/getting-started/4-data-updates.mdx, after:

---
title: Data Updates
---

Now here's the thing that I'm most excited about. `POST` requests! It's likely
that you've already been doing those with Next before, but usually it involves
creating api-routes, posting with `fetch`, and managing client state with `swr`
or `react-query`. No more!

Let's get right to it.

## handle » post

```js
import { handle, json } from 'next-runtime';

export const getServerSideProps = handle({
  async post({ req: { body } }) {
    await db.comments.insert({
      message: body.message,
    });

    return json({
      message: 'thanks for your comment!',
    });
  },
});
```

I mean, how cool is that? By adding the `post` handler, we'll be able to submit
forms (post data) to the same route as the one that's responsible for rendering
the page. No context switching between the page component, `getServerSideProps`,
and `api-routes`. And here as well it comes with a free api route. Post FormData
to it, or JSON. They both just work.

Possibly unnecessary, but here's a form that could be submitting data to this
`getServerSideProps`.

```jsx
export default function MyPage({ name, message }) {
  if (message) {
    return <p>{message}</p>;
  }

  return (
    <form method="post">
      <input name="name" defaultValue={name} />
      <input name="message" />
      <button type="submit">submit</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

That's right. Just a standard HTML form. Note that patch, put and delete methods
are supported as well. Those behave the same as post requests.

## Upgrading to `<Form>`

These standard `POST` requests are sweet! You'll have forms implemented in
no-time. Don't make react control the state. Use `defaultValue` and no
`onSubmit` handler. Let your server do its validation, and move on.

But sometimes, we want more. Faster responses, or prevent the page from
reloading. In such cases, you'll use `Form`.

```jsx
import { Form, usePendingFormSubmit } from 'next-runtime/form';

export default function MyPage({ name, message }) {
  const pending = usePendingFormSubmit();

  if (message) {
    return <p>{message}</p>;
  }

  return (
    <Form method="post">
      <input name="name" defaultValue={name} />
      <input name="message" />
      <button type="submit" disabled={pending}>
        {pending ? 'submitting' : 'submit'}
      </button>
    </Form>
  );
}
```

Note that we now import `Form` from `next-runtime/form`, and use a hook to see
if the form is currently being submitted. By using `Form` instead of `form`, the
form is submitted using javascript (`fetch`), and the page won't refresh upon
submission.
